<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Alter Ego Contributors

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

# Contributing to Alter Ego

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Alter Ego! The following are some
ways that you can contribute to Alter Ego.

## Bug Reports

If you believe you've found a bug in Alter Ego's code, please use the `.dumplog` command,
and then [open a new Issue](https://github.com/MsVBLANK/Alter-Ego/issues).

Before submitting a bug report please ensure that you can reproduce the bug
and you provide logs and screenshots in the issue. This helps us diagnose and
fix the bug faster.

## Pull Requests

If you have an feature or fix that you want to get merged, then please submit a
pull request on [GitHub](https://github.com/MsVBLANK/Alter-Ego/pulls).
If you are contributing a large amount of code or a new feature, please discuss it first in the [issues page](https://github.com/MsVBLANK/Alter-Ego/issues)
before making a contribution.

Before submitting a pull request for review, please ensure that all tests in the
test suite has passed.

## AI-Assisted Contributions

While Alter Ego does not have a policy barring AI-assisted contributions, we believe that all AI-assisted code must be
understood and reviewed by the contributor. This means that you should be able to explain how your contributed code
works without the assistance of AI tools.

Any commits that includes substantial AI-assisted code (i.e. more than simple auto-completions) must be disclosed.
Please attach the following attribution to your commit message[^1]:

```
Assisted-by: AGENT_NAME:MODEL_VERSION [TOOL1] [TOOL2]
```

Commits MUST NOT be marked as co-authored by an AI tool. For instance, a commit that says `Co-authored-by: Claude`
will not be accepted.

Issues and pull requests that are entirely generated by AI tools will not be accepted and will be closed by
maintainers. This is to prevent low-quality content. Please author issues and PRs yourself.

## Copyright Notices

When you contribute code, please attach a copyright notice on each file that you make or modify. This helps us keep
track of who owns the copyright for each file.

Most files currently do not have an annotation, but please add one to any new files you create or modify.
Any code must be licensed under `AGPL-3.0-or-later` and any documentation must be licensed under `CC-BY-SA-4.0`.

For existing ts/js files, please add a copyright notice to the top of the file like this:

```ts
// SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2019 Alter Ego Contributors
// SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 Your Name <your.name@example.com>
//
// SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later

export default class someClass()
// ...
```

For new ts/js files, please add a copyright notice like this:

```ts
// SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 Your Name <your.name@example.com>
//
// SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later
```

For markdown files, please add a copyright notice like this:

```md
<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 Your Name <your.name@example.com>

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

# Some Documentation
```

For more information on these notices, refer to [REUSE](https://reuse.software/faq/).

## Getting Help

If you need any help in making a contribution for Alter Ego, please make an issue
on our [GitHub Issue Tracker](https://github.com/MsVBLANK/Alter-Ego/issues). We
would be more than happy in guiding you through the process.

[^1]: This is taken from the [Linux Kernel's](https://docs.kernel.org/process/coding-assistants.html#attribution) AI
contribution policy. Please refer to them for more examples.
